
\section{Conclusion}

In this report, we investigate time series forecasting using neural networks.
By applying a grid search on the time series forecasting of a continuous 
function, we find suitable architectures to produce accurate predictions for 
all considered types of noise. We discover that it is necessary to vary the 
configuration of the optimization algorithm w.r.t. the learning rate in order 
to find the optimal results. It is remarkable that even the time series 
forecasting for a function with noise from a Wiener process yielded good 
results, since this type of noise makes the function indifferentiable at any 
position. Furthermore, we applied neural networks to predict the chaotic 
Mackey-Glass time series. We can show that the prediction gets more challenging
for the neural network with a higher delay parameter $\tau$, which strenghtens
chaotic characteristics. When applying noise from a Wiener process, the error
rate of the prediction increases by approximately one order of magnitude. The
Wiener process perturbates the chaotic system and influences the subsequent
steps of the time series, which enlarges the chaotic characteristics of the 
time series. Last but not least, we show at the example of biological
oscillators that it is not possible to generate stochastic time series based on
a set of scalar parameters with a deterministic neural network. The neural
network approximator can only predict the mean of the probability distribution
generating the noise, and therefore be used to predict trends in the time 
series. But since the amplitude declines below the level of the original time 
series, some features like spikes can not be generated.
